[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome to
House of Wellbeing.
You are listening to the Memory
and Concentration mind talk
audio.
In a moment, the
hypnosis will begin.
But before it does,
I'd like to remind you
that the following
audio contains
powerful hypnotic
suggestions that
aim to help you reach a
deep level of relaxation.
So please be sure that wherever
you're listening to this audio,
you're in a safe and
comfortable place,
free from distractions, where
you can fully relax and let go.
Please don't listen to this
if you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you and you'll
easily come out of hypnosis.
But right now, there's
nothing at all you need to do,
apart from close your
eyes, relax, and let go.
And enjoy those peaceful
feelings and all the benefits
that come with it.
I'd like you now
to make yourself
as comfortable as
possible and listen
to the sound of my voice.
And as you do so, you may be
aware of other sounds going on
around you.
But you know that
they're not important.
They don't matter at all,
and you can dismiss them out
of your awareness and
focus your mind entirely
on what I'm saying.
This is your time, and
you make the most of it.
No one needs or wants
anything from you at all.
And I'd like you to
take in a deep breath,
filling your lungs
as much as you can.
And let it out slowly.
And again, take in
a long, slow breath.
And when you're ready,
let it out slowly.
Now you can allow your
breathing to return to normal.
Gentle breaths, in
and out, returning
to your normal,
gentle, breathing pace.
And I'd like you now to
imagine yourself outside,
in your favorite
place in nature.
Maybe it's a peaceful
tropical beach,
or it could be a
beautiful garden.
And maybe you can
imagine lying back
on a boat, which is sailing
on a tranquil river.
It really doesn't matter
where you are, as long
as it feels good to you.
And it's a beautiful day.
The sky is a special
shade of blue, so clear.
And it's a warm summer's day.
There's a breeze gently
blowing over you,
and the temperature is
just how you like it.
And in the sky is
a dazzling sun,
so bright that you just
want to close your eyes
and feel the glowing, healing
warmth of the sun on your body.
And surprisingly, you find
that you can direct that sun
over and around your body.
And as you realize
this, you begin
to direct the light from
the sun over your face.
You can feel the healing
warmth of the light
from the sun over your face,
just relaxing those muscles
around the eyes, around the
nose and mouth, and your brow.
And as you do this, you find
that your facial muscles begin
to flatten out as they relax.
And you let go completely.
And it's a beautiful day.
You move the light from the
sun into the throat area,
feeling the warmth of the light
from the sun in your throat.
Relaxing all the muscles.
Just letting go completely now.
And the warm sunlight now
moving into your shoulders
and across your
shoulders, making them
feel loose and limp
and comfortable
as your shoulders sink into
the frame of your body.
And you feel so comfortable now.
So relaxed and at peace.
And you let nothing bother
or concern you at all.
And you direct the light from
the sun down your right arm,
from the shoulders to
the tips of your fingers.
Your right arm begins
to relax and let go.
And it's a beautiful feeling
to be here right now.
The warmth of the
light from the sun
penetrates the nerves and bones
and muscles of that right arm.
And it's such a beautiful day.
You move the sun
over to your left arm
and guide the light from the
sun down and up your left arm,
from the top of your
shoulders all the way down
to the tips of your fingers.
You can feel the left arm
relaxing, becoming comfortably
heavy and totally relaxed.
Now, move that warm light
across and into the chest area.
And relax the chest,
all the muscles there.
Now down to the stomach,
relaxing your tummy,
down into your hips and your
thighs, over to your right leg.
The light warms the muscles
as you relax your right leg.
Let it feel comfortable
and heavy now.
Now move the light
from the sun down
your right leg, up
and down from the top
of the hips to the
tips of your toes,
as the right leg
relaxes and you let go.
And it's such a beautiful day.
You now move the light
into your left leg.
You move it up and down the left
leg, from the top of the hips
to the tips of your toes.
And your left leg relaxes,
releasing tension,
letting go now completely.
Your whole body is now totally
and completely relaxed,
from the top of your
head all the way down
to the tips of your toes.
And as your body relaxes,
your mind also relaxes.
And I want you now to
notice that the sun is
setting, going down now.
Deeper and deeper down.
And you're so deeply
relaxed, but still completely
alert and aware.
You resist the temptation
to fall asleep.
Your mind is thoroughly
relaxed, but you
stay focused on these words.
So now, I'd like you to
use your imagination.
And once again, you're in a
wonderful place in nature.
The trees are a
beautiful shade of green.
It's a stunning day, and the
sun is shining down on you.
There's a soft and
gentle breeze in the air,
making you feel pleasantly
relaxed and calm.
All around, you can
see trees and plants
and an array of the
most beautiful flowers
you have ever seen.
So colorful and vibrant.
And you can smell the rich
aroma of these flowers,
making you feel so peaceful.
Nothing else matters right now.
You feel completely
at ease and so calm.
And in the distance, you
can hear the sound of water
flowing slowly and gently.
The sound of water is helping
you to go more and more deeply
relaxed.
You may feel your muscles
loosening more and more,
relaxing with the beautiful
flowing sound of water.
Out of curiosity, you decide to
follow the sound of the water.
And you feel excited about where
it's leading you, knowing deep
within yourself you're going
to a very special place,
a place where you're
going to create
some positive, wonderful,
long-lasting changes.
As you walk slowly
towards the water,
you can hear the sound of
birds singing in the trees.
You feel totally at ease.
As you finally
reach the lake, you
realize it's the most beautiful
vision you've ever seen.
And you're in awe of the
beauty that surrounds you.
The vast lake is
filled with a variety
of colors, rich colors of blues,
turquoise, and light greens.
And it fills your mind and
body with a wave of relaxation.
You may be becoming more relaxed
with each and every breath
you take, feeling more calm,
more peaceful, and more
relaxed than ever before.
Your mind may be
drifting in and out,
just letting go deeper
and deeper still.
You may feel as though your
mind is flowing gently,
flowing gently, like the
lake in your imagination.
You look into the distance and
you can see a wooden bridge
leading over the lake.
You walk towards the bridge,
feeling more and more
deeply relaxed.
As you reach the
bridge, you can see
there are 10 steps leading over
to the other side of the lake.
You slowly start
walking over the bridge,
counting the steps in your mind.
10, 9, deeper and
deeper still, 8, 7,
all the way down
to relaxation now,
6, 5, and 4, drifting off
peacefully and easily,
3, 2, all the way down,
deeply relaxed, and 1.
You see a comfortable
padded chair
and you take a seat,
ready to embrace
the changes to come in your
deep state of relaxation now.
And you've been
feeling like you want
to improve your memory
and your concentration.
And this mind talk will help you
to create new neural pathways
to exercise this
part of the brain
and strengthen
your ability here.
The more you listen
to this mind talk,
the more you'll be working
on these neural pathways.
And you'll soon start to
notice significant changes
taking place.
Your brain has an incredible
ability to reshape itself,
and this is especially true
when it comes to your memory.
With the right
information and practice,
you can harness the natural
power of neuroplasticity
to increase your
cognitive abilities,
enhance your ability to
learn new information,
and improve your
memory significantly.
Every thought or face, name,
or detail that you encounter
is stored in your memory,
just like a computer.
And it's up to you to
access that information.
And sometimes, we know
that the harder we try,
the harder it is to recall.
The more you put pressure
on your conscious mind,
the more the subconscious
takes a backseat.
So from now on, you
have utter confidence
in your subconscious.
It will recall everything you
need it to when you need it to.
And your mind is more
powerful than you know.
You simply need to
know how to use it.
Your mind will always do what
it thinks you want it to do.
And from now on, you have
faith that your subconscious
mind will give you any
information or memories
that you need.
You have a powerful database
of information in your mind,
and you can access it
at any time you need it.
You can also start
working on building
that link to the
subconscious mind
and strengthening it,
making it work faster,
using new neural pathways,
and making it even more
reliable than ever before.
And the first thing you
can do to boost your memory
is to start
exercising your mind.
And this must be
something not only
intellectually
demanding, but also
something that's unfamiliar
and out of your comfort zone.
So to strengthen the brain,
you need to keep learning
and keep developing new skills.
And in this way,
you'll be creating
those new neural
pathways, keeping
your mind active and
youthful, alert, and awake.
So it may be something like
learning a new language,
or perhaps taking up a new
intellectually-challenging
game, a crossword or
Sudoku, whatever it may be.
The next thing you can
work on is not only
exercise for your brain health,
but also physical exercise.
And you know that
physical exercise
helps your brain to stay sharp.
It increases oxygen
to your brain
and enhances the effects
of helpful brain chemicals,
reducing those harmful
stress hormones.
And perhaps most
importantly, exercise
plays an important role
in that neuroplasticity
by boosting growth
factors and stimulating
new neural connections.
You also take care to
make sure that you're
getting enough sleep.
And there's a big difference
between the amount
of sleep you can get by on
and the amount of sleep you
need to function at your best.
By limiting the amount of
hours of sleep you have,
your memory, creativity,
problem-solving abilities,
and critical thinking
skills are all compromised.
And most importantly, sleep is
absolutely necessary for memory
consolidation, with the key
memory-enhancing activity
occurring during the
deepest stages of sleep.
So it's imperative that
you spend long enough
in this deep state of sleep.
You have confidence and faith in
your ability to remember things
now, to concentrate now.
And you also make sure that
when you're reading, listening,
or doing whatever
it is that you may
want to recall at a later date,
you're paying full attention.
You don't allow your
mind to wander off.
You're focused and mindful.
Your mind is alert, and
you're fully concentrating
on what you're doing.
You can't remember something
if you've never learned it,
and you can't learn something
that is encoded to your brain
if you don't pay
enough attention to it.
And we know that it takes about
eight seconds of intense focus
to process a piece of
information into your memory.
So if you find that
you're easily distracted,
you pick a quiet
place where you won't
be interrupted so
your mind can encode
those memories effectively.
When taking information
in, you not only
pay as much attention
as possible,
but you also involve as
many sensors as possible.
Try to relate information
to colors and textures,
smells, and tastes.
And this physical act
of rewriting information
can help to imprint all those
memories onto your brain,
even if you're a visual
learner, reading out loud what
you want to remember.
And if you can recite it
rhythmically, then even better.
And lastly, you know that stress
is one of the brain's worst
enemies.
Over time, chronic
stress will destroy
your brain cells and
damage the hippocampus,
the region of the brain
involved in the formation
of new memories and the
retrieval of old ones.
So by listening
to this mind talk,
you're reducing your stress
levels significantly.
You're boosting
those neural pathways
and you're enhancing your mind's
ability to store memories.
From now on in, you know
that everything you see,
you remember.
Everything you
feel, you remember.
touch, you remember.
You can remember,
or you can choose
to forget the things you
don't need to remember,
but you keep that
knowledge within you.
Your inner mind
records and stores
all the information, like
a computer, available
there just when you need it.
And you're becoming
calm and relaxed,
feeling totally and
completely at peace.
Your mind is focused and alert.
And you find it so easy to
retain all the information
that's necessary for
you, and to forget
the irrelevant,
unimportant things.
But in this state of
relaxation, your mind
is receptive and focused, eager
to concentrate and to learn
and to remember.
And every so often, you
may remind yourself,
everything I've ever learned
or read, smelt, touched
is recorded in my wonderful
subconscious mind.
You have a wonderful memory.
Your mind is focused and alert.
Your concentration
is at its best
because of this
wonderful relaxation
that you're allowing
yourself to drift into.
Your mind is there to focus
and to remember, to absorb
and to retain, and
to make available
whatever you need to remember.
And the concentration
strengthens your mind.
And relaxation eases your mind.
You're alert and
you're ready to learn.
Ready to exercise your
mind and your memory
and your concentration.
And when you focus your mind,
you strengthen your memory.
You remember that everything
you need to remember,
you trust in the power of your
wonderful subconscious mind.
Memory and concentration
intensify your capacity
to store all those wonderful
subconscious learnings.
All you need to do is
relax and let go and allow
those learnings to be a
wonderful part of you.
And these hypnotic
suggestions are now
embedded in your
subconscious mind,
and they'll become more powerful
as the days and weeks go by.
And in a moment, I'm going
to count up from 1 to 5
to awaken you.
And at the count of 5, you'll
be wide awake, fully refreshed,
alert, and feeling
fantastic, bringing back
with you all the
wonderful new feelings.
Coming back now with
1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Eyes open when you're ready.